# Containers Concepts

## What are Containers?

Containers are self contained, immutable entities that include everything required to run a piece of software via a container runtime. Docker is a container runtime. It can run on different platforms. Containers are instances of a docker image. Docker images can be shared via push and pull commands with the docker cli, similar to git. Images are made up of layers. Each layer builds on the previous layer by modifying the image filesystem or metadata.

## Self Contained

Containers run in isolation from each other, and any other processes running on the OS. This happens at the kernel in Linux by sandboxing processes and controlling their resource allocations via control groups (cgroups).

## Immutability

Containers are immutable. The have a read-only filesystem. If a container is restarted, the filesystem is the same as the very first time it was run. The files in a container are whatever is included in the docker image.

## Cross Platform

The Docker container runtime (also know as the Docker Engine) is available for Linux, macOS & Windows. Linux based containers can be run on any of these platforms. It is possible to run Windows containers on certain versions of Windows.

## Layered

Images are made up of 1 or more layers. Different images can have the same layer in common. For example, an nginx and Apache image could both use `centos` as the base image. When sharing images, it is only necessary to send the layer differences rather than the full image.