# Background Reading

To complement the presentation, some background reading is provided here. This should be viewed as a launchpad into your own Agile journey.

## The Agile Manifesto

Agile is an umbrella term for a number of methodologies such as Scrum, Lean, Kanban and XP among others. In Red Hat Mobile (RHMAP), we follow a Scrum approach but please note that we use the term Scrum / Agile interchangeably to represent the methodology we are following.

Agile bases itself around a number of principles which are embodied in a document known as the [Agile Manifesto](http://www.agilemanifesto.org/). In short it states that we can improve how we work by placing value and emphasis on certain approaches. It states that we value:

* **Individuals and interactions** over Processes and tools
* **Working software** over Comprehensive documentation
* **Customer collaboration** over Contract negotiation
* **Responding to change** over Following a plan

The crucial point about this is we place value in the items on the right but we place more value in the items on the **left**.


## A brief introduction to Scrum Terminology

Scrum is an Agile framework for completing complex projects. Scrum originally was formalized for software development projects, but it works well for any complex, innovative scope of work. The possibilities are endless. The Scrum framework is deceptively simple and can easily be followed for any project you undertake. This can extend itself to 1 person projects, whereby you can cherry pick the ceremonies that you follow and attempt to follow the principle of the methodology. 

### Scrum Team Roles

* Scrum Team
The Scrum Team can be made up of individuals from various parts of the organisation. In RHMAP, that includes Engineering, Operations, QA, Support, Technical Writer, Sales, Marketing etc. The Scrum Team is normally put together around the thematic area of work that they are involved in, meaning that the team can change over time depending on what expertise is required within the group. Within a Scrum Team, there are, deliberately, no assigned roles. This is intended to promote the idea that any member of the team is free to take on any piece of work. People with a particular skill set or expertise will naturally gravitate towards the tasks that the feel most comfortable with.

* Product Owner
The Product Owner control the vision for their product or group. They are focused on understanding business, technical and market requirements, then prioritizing the work to be done by the scrum team accordingly. Typically, there should only be one Product Owner but it can be representatives of various stakeholder groups that the team works with. Ideally the Product Owner should be unbiased and is there to make the right decision for the good of the Product.

* Scrum Master
Scrum Masters are the champion for scrum within their team. They coach the team, the product owner, and the business on the scrum process and look for ways to fine-tune their practice of it. They are a guiding hand for the team and act as a shield to help protect the team and keep them focused on the work at hand. A main day to day role they play is unblocking a team member if they have an issue and representing the team at wider communication meeting. All of that is designed to optimise the team and ensure that the focus stays on the work at hand. The Scrum Master is not the "leader" of the team - Scrum teams are self organizing. Rather, the Scrum Master is a "Master" of the "Scrum" principles and should be viewed as a facilitator and a coach to help educate the wider team on the principles of the methodology.

### Scrum Lifecycle

Scrum follows a lifecycle consisting of several parts, all wrapped around the concept of a **Sprint**. A sprint is a timeboxed effort, typically two weeks but no longer than four weeks, which has the potential to deliver something of value or something that is shippable to a customer. Within the timeframe, we commit to trying to complete a certain number of tasks which we aim to complete entirely. All of the following stages of the Agile lifecycle should be attended by the three main roles: Scrum Team, Product Owner and Scrum Master as well as any other interested attendee. However most meetings are optional, so it is ok to miss a meeting on occasion.

#### Backlog Priority and Estimation

The Backlog should constantly be prioritised and any item within the backlog should have an appropriate estimate. To assist with estimates, it is often desirable to break a task down into smaller units, termed SubTasks. Smaller constitute parts are useful for helping to gain a better estimation, as SubTasks help to identify the larger picture required to get a particular issue over the line. However, if these Subtasks are estimated to be more than 2 to 3 days effort, they should be created as stand alone tasks, which can then have SubTasks added to get to a greater level of detail. In that regard it helps derisk the work before it becomes committed to within a Sprint.

#### Sprint Planning

With the backlog already in a prioritised state and estimated accordingly, the team meet and decide what should make up the Sprint. The Product Owner will have helped us arrive at this state and is available for any clarification. Typically a Sprint revolves around a Thematic area to help the team focus and allows work to commence on related issues. During planning, the team use the **Story Point** measure to gauge the complexity of the work they are about to undertake and arrive at the contents of the sprint, guided by that measure. How many story points a team can complete in a given sprint is termed the **Velocity** and over time it will help the team gauge how much work they can comfortably take on. With that in mind, Sprint Planning should be a very simple mathematical exercise of taking the team velocity and consuming ±10% of that in the coming Sprint. It is sometimes desirable to take on more, and try and establish if the Velocity is accurate. It is sometimes necessary to take on less, if holidays have been booked within the team for example.

#### Sprint Review

After the sprint has concluded, typically on the last day of the sprint, we have a review. During the review we can share with other teams what we achieved. This is an opportunity to demo or showcase the sprint's outputs of the sprint. The audience for that meeting is entirely dependent on the focus of the sprint. It is also a chance for the Product Owner to accept or reject the outcome of the Spint. This is a chance for the team to be held accountable as a defined goal was set out initially and we have now reached a point where that goal is expected to be met. Typically, if the goal is in danger, it should surface well ahead of the Sprint Review. That is the job of the Scrum Master to outwardly project the status of the Sprint so that no surprises occur for Stakeholders on the day.

#### Sprint Retrospective

This is typically the most important stage of the lifecycle. Here we give the members who participated within the Sprint an opportunity to share their experiences in an attempt to positively impact the Agile process that we are following. Typically the format follows a format of sharing:

1. What we thought worked well -- to reinforce it and make sure we keep going in the right direction
2. What we thought didn't work so well -- to raise an awareness that the process might need reviewing
3. Action Points -- typically what will we do for the next sprint, what will we change, any follow on work, etc.

The Sprint Retrospective is a core pillar of Scrum. As a team we want to constantly learn from our experiences in order to refine and improve how we work as a team. Within Scrum it is known as the principle of do, learn and adapt. As Retrospectives happen after every Sprint, we try and change the format to keep it engaging and to promote discussion and learning. This is also a chance for the team to bond and should be engaging and fun. A website like [Fun Retrospectives](http://www.funretrospectives.com/) is a good source of inspiration.

#### Daily Standup

Every day during the sprint we hold a daily standup, which is a strict timeboxed checkpoint for the team. It should be a short, snappy meeting and typically 10-15 mins is the right time frame, otherwise it becomes a burden on the team. This is an opportunity for the team to share their current status and to flag any issues that are blocking them. Three core questions are asked:

1. What did you achieve yesterday?
2. What will you look at today?
3. Are there any blockers stopping you from progressing your work?

Questions 1 and 2 help to distribute the work among the team and ensure that the Sprint is progressing in the correct manner. The third question is very important to alert the team to a potential issue stopping you completing your work. Obviously this should be brought up through other forms of communication ahead of the Standup but the Standup provides an opportunity to share this widely with the team.

### Product Backlog
The Product Backlog is an ordered list of all the items that the product owner wants done. A scrum team should typically spend approx 10% of their time reviewing and refining the items on the product backlog - breaking down large items into smaller, more achievable tasks and estimating the effort required to complete these tasks. At any time, the Scrum Team should have enough items identified and broken down into to small tasks to populate approx 2 sprints. This gives the Scrum Team some flexibility when planning a sprint as they should always have more than enough tasks ready to bring into a sprint. As part of backlog refinement, the Scrum Team should be looking several sprints out (typically 5 sprints) at the work on the horizon, and be starting to break this work down into smaller tasks. This ensures that any dependencies on other teams can be identified and flagged early, provides time to engage with the product owner to seek clarification and allows for investigation or "spike" tasks to be prioritised so that further refinement can be done. It also allows the team refocus on a new initiative with minimal disruption.

### Sprint Backlog
The Sprint backlog represents the work that the Scrum Team have committed to trying to complete within a given sprint. These items could be new feature requests or bug fixes, among other tasks. Like the product backlog,the sprint backlog should be ordered, with high priority items moving to the **top of the backlog**. Ideally, new items discovered during a sprint should not be added to the Sprint itself, they should land on the Sprint Backlog - unless they are deemed necessary to achieve the sprint goal. When this happens, a discussion with the product owner may be necessary to negotiate which task(s) will be dropped from the sprint to accommodate this new work. Alternatively, the Scrum Team may decide that they have capacity to take on this new work without the need to drop any other work from the sprint.