# Running containers remotely

## Using 'docker machine'

A 'docker machine' is a local or remote instance running docker. More info on setting one up can be found at https://docs.docker.com/machine/.
Deploying a container to a remote docker-machine can be done using the `docker` cli. Instead of all commands running against your local machine, they run against the remote machine. Whenever you build an image, it is being built on the remote docker machine. If you pull an image, it gets pulled onto the remote docker machine.


## Using kubernetes or OpenShift

Kubernetes is a system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications. It groups containers that make up an application into logical units for easy management and discovery. If you have a kubernetes cluster, you can run docker containers in that cluster via kubernetes templates & the `kubectl` cli. https://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/kubectl-overview/

If you have an OpenShift cluster (based on kubernetes), you can run docker containers in that cluster via openshift templates & the `oc` cli. https://openshift.io/

Kubernetes & OpenShift templates reference the docker image to use when running a container. The image must already be available on the cluster nodes, or be available to pull down. In order to make our image available, we can push it to a public repository on Docker Hub.

### Pushing an image to a remote repository (optional)

You will need a Docker Hub account for this part. First, use `docker tag` to let docker know what the remote url will be. 

```bash
$ docker tag wit/example:latest <docker hub username>/example:latest
$ docker push <docker hub username>/example:latest
```

### Running the image in an OpenShift cluster (optional)

Once pushed, you can reference the image in the remote kubernetes/OpenShift cluster

```bash
$ oc new-project wit
$ oc run wit --image=<docker hub username>/example --port=3000 
deploymentconfig "wit" created
```

The pod can be exposed via a `service` & `route`

```bash
$ oc expose rc wit-1 --port=3000 --target-port=3000 --name=wit
$ oc expose service wit --name=wit
```

The exposed `route` can be used to access the running container.

```bash
$ curl wit-wit.osm4.skunkhenry.com/hello
$ hello world
```